# PERSONAL PORTFOLIO
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:

My final project is an online portfolio website for me to share my engineering projects in an aesthetically pleasing way. Many website creator tools are not free to use and those that are, such as Google Sites, are very limited in their layouts and user interaction capabilities. Therefore, I chose to create my own from scratch using the HTML, CSS, and Javascript skills that were taught during the CS50x course.

The portfolio follows a simple website layout. index.html acts as the homepage, featuring a header, some body content and a footer. The homepage links to the other html pages (gundambackpack.html, perfectbeing.html, sscollection.html, nightjar.html, and marsrover.html) each containing images, videos, and text of their respective project. All media is stored and organised in the images folder and everything is styled using the styles.css file in the css folder. All icons and logos used in this project were made by myself. SVGs were used to ensure that the image quality of the icons would not change depending on the size of the screen.

In order to achieve the layout that I wanted, it was important for me to first develop my understanding of how HTML's box model works. I was able to achieve this by watching additional videos on the subject. An important finding for this project was the use of flexboxes. HTML boxes will stack vertically by default however, using flexboxes would allow me to align boxes horizontally which was essential in the design of the headers, footers, the initial profile image and title, and more.

There are two main features that I incorporated into my website. The first is the custom slider that I built. Bootstrap is imported in my code and has presets for their own slider feature however, customisability of the Bootstrap slider is limited and did not fit with the layout I was envisioning. As such, I decided to build my own custom slider. This was a difficult task, utilising all of the three coding languages in this project. Specifically, I had to learn more about how to use the CSS styling "overflow: hidden;" as well as how to translate HTML elements through Javascript. Through this, I was able to achieve a more distinct slider with sliding images and text. In addition, I included my own indicator and arrow buttons to allow users to easily interact with the slider. The final addition for this slider was responsiveness to changing screen sizes. In order for the slider to maintain functionality, it was important to check for screen resizes using Javascript. As the slider is translated by a specific pixel amount, screen resizes would cause the items in the slider to no longer be correctly aligned with the screen. As such, it was necessary to alter the parameters and position of the slider according to the current screen size. The index of the user's current slide is also saved so that when users return to the homepage, the slider displays the last slide that the user was viewing. All of this is controlled in the slider.js file.

The other main feature that I incorporated was a light and dark mode option. This was done in the themeChange.js file by using Javascript to remove and add the appropriate CSS classes to the coloured features while using CSS color transitions for a smoother transition between the two themes. However, this solution was not possible for the images that I had included such as the arrows for the slider. To resolve this, the Javascript switches between a light and a dark image while adding a fadeout class to the image. The fadeout class gradually reduces the opacity of the image to 0 before returning to 1 during the image swap allowing for a smoother transition. My final addition to this feature was the saving of the current theme. This would allow users to maintain their chosen theme as they navigate through the pages of the website.

Something that I would like to improve for this project would be the website's responsiveness to mobile screen sizes. The thinner screen sizes cause issues with usability and would greatly improve from the use of media queries. However, this is something that I need to research a bit more thoroughly. 